Day 31 of Summer Internship
===========================

*Date: July 10th, 2019*

Today I had decided to write the user manual for my software. I was
writing it in [markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/)
because its easy to write in MD, its easy to read in MD, its easy to
convert MD to many other formats and GitHub's README files are written
in MD. MD is literally everywhere, because its just so cool. Even my
blogs are [written in MD](https://github.com/Sudhanshu-Dubey14/Blogs_MD)
and my presentations too.

So I started writing the manual and as I was doing it, I was kinda
recapping the whole project, visiting the links the I had used again.
Also, as I was trying to explain how to use the software, I realized
that I could improve the software here and there and make it more user
friendly. The more content was going into the manual, the more my code
was improving. And though my attempt was to make the code and manual as
user friendly as possible, there were some complexities that I just
couldn't avoid. And due to all that, it took more time to write the
manual than I had assumed.

Now after I had finally finished the manual, there was the this one big
issue. I wanted this manual to be the main page of my documentation. For
that, I had the
[@mainpage](http://www.doxygen.nl/manual/commands.html\#cmdmainpage) but
I was looking for something else. And that I found here, in the 3rd
answer of [this
question](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/9502426/how-to-make-an-introduction-page-with-doxygen).
So I added the name of my manual file in `USE_MDFILE_AS_MAINPAGE` but
that didn't worked!! Adding the `\mainpage` commands didn't helped
either!! The after thinking for a moment, I realised that I hadn't asked
Doxygen to look for MD files. Then by appanding `*.md` in
`FILE_PATTERNS`, I finally got my manual as the main page of my
documentation. My work for the day was done.

As I went to show this to my head, they were watching the live India vs
New Zealand cricket match. He asked "So what happened?" and I replied "I
am just here to watch the match". And so we all sat down to watch the
match. It was a totally different experience to watch a live match
sitting in the office. We were cheering, commenting, suggesting,
worrying and laughing. The flow of feelings and emotions was nice.
Talking about flow, here is how to understand flow charts:

![](https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/flow_charts.png)
